•	Start Wireshark. Under the “Capture” header, select the “Interface List” option; or click on the “Interfaces” button on the toolbar:
Select the network adapter (wired or wireless) that you are currently using to connect to the Internet, and hit the “Start” button.
Wireshark is now capturing live network activity on your network interface. Notice that the list of packets is color-coded to highlight different types of network traffic.
•	Open your web browser and navigate to a few random web pages - observe that the network packets corresponding to your web browsing activity are captured and show up in Wireshark as well.
•	By default, the list of captured packets will keep scrolling automatically during a live capture. You can toggle this on/off using the AutoScroll toggle button in the toolbar.
•	After letting the capture run for a couple of minutes, press the stop capture	  button.	Do not close this capture session.

Filtering the Packet List
Capturing network traffic for a couple minutes could include traffic on many different protocols such as ARP, TCP, UDP, DNS, HTTP, etc.
We may not be interested in all of these, depending on what we are trying to achieve. Fortunately, Wireshark allows us to filter the list based on different criteria using the “Filter” toolbar:

Filter toolbar : 
Let us take a look at the HTTP traffic that occurs when we browse the web.
In the filter toolbar, type “http” and then click on “Apply”. The window will now list only captured packets related to HTTP traffic:

Examining HTTP Traffic:
The HTTP traffic that occurs during web browsing.
•	Stop and close any capture that you may have open, and start a new capture.
•	Set the filter to show only HTTP traffic.
Start with the HTTP request sent from your web browser.
•	In	your	web	browser,	navigate	to	some	webpage	like	http://www- scf.usc.edu/~csci571/Special/HTTP/proxy.html.
•	In the top frame of the Wireshark main window, look for the packet that corresponds to your request. This contains the URL in the “Info” section. Select this packet.
•	In the middle frame of the Wireshark window, expand the “Hypertext Transfer Protocol” section. Notice the details given for the:
o	GET request
o	Host
o	User-Agent
o	Accepts
o	cookie
o	etc

Take a look at the HTTP response to the above request.
In the top frame of the Wireshark main window, find and select the “HTTP/1.1 200 OK” packet immediately below the request for proxy.html. This is the response containing the requested web page.
 

Again, expand the “Hypertext Transfer Protocol” section. Notice the details given for
o	Cache-Control
o	Content-Type
o	Server
o	Etc



